# Abstract

- PSTN is the aggregate of the world's circuit-switched telephone networks.

- Signaling System No. 7 (SS7) is a set of telephony signaling protocols used
  to set up and tear down most of the world's PSTN telephone calls. Examples
  include the _digits dialed by the caller_, the _caller's billing number_,
  etc.

- SCTP was designed to transport these SS7 signaling messages over IP networks,
  although it is capable of broader applications.

- SCTP is a reliable transport protocol operating on top of a connectionless
  packet network such as IP. It offers the following services to its users:

  - acknowledged error-free non-duplicated transfer of user data,
  - data fragmentation to conform to discovered path MTU size,
  - sequenced delivery of user messages within multiple streams, with an
    option for order-of-arrival delivery of individual user messages,
  - optional bundling of multiple user messages into a single SCTP packet, and
  - network-level fault tolerance through supporting of multi-homing at either
    or both ends of an association.

  The design of SCTP includes appropriate congestion avoidance behavior and
  resistance to flooding and masquerade (impersonation) attacks.

# 1 Introduction

This section explains the reasoning behind the development of the SCTP, the
services it offers, and the basic concepts needed to understand the detailed
description of the protocol.

## 1.1 Motivation

Some applications have found TCP limiting, incorporating their own reliable
data transfer protocol on top of UDP. The limitations are as follows:

- Some applications do not require strict order-of-transmission delivery of
  data. The applications face delay due to the head-of-line blocking (packets
  further in the queue are blocked due to non-delivery of the packets in the
  beginning of the queue) in TCP.

- The stream oriented nature of TCP forces applications to use their own record
  marking to delineate their messages.

- Multi-homing is complicated.

- TCP is relatively vulnerable to DoS attacks, such as SYN attacks.

Transport of PSTN signaling across IP faces all these limitations.

## 1.2 Architectural View of SCTP

- SCTP is in the _Transport layer_ sandwiched between the _Application_ and
  _Network_ layers.

- SCTP is connection-oriented in nature, but the SCTP association is different
  from the TCP connection. In an SCTP association, each endpoint can have
  multiple transport addresses in combination with an SCTP port. The
  association can transfer data over all of the possible source/destination
  combinations.

## 1.3 Key Terms

- Active destination transport address - A transport address on a peer endpoint
  that a transmitting endpoint considers available for receiving user messages.

- Bundling - Carrying more than one user message in the same SCTP packet.

- Chunk - A unit of information within an SCTP packet, consisting of a chunk
  header and chunk-specific content.  
- Congestion window (cwnd) - The number of bytes a sender can send to
  a particular destination before receiving an acknowledgement.

- Cumulative TSN Ack point - The TSN of the last DATA chunk acknowledged via
  the Cumulative TSN Ack field of a SACK (?).

- Idle destination address - An address that has not had user messages sent to
  it within some length of time, normally the HEARTBEAT interval or greater.

- Inactive destination transport address - An address that is considered
  inactive due to errors and unavailable to transport user messages.

- Message - Data submitted to SCTP by the Upper Layer Protocol (ULP).

- Message Authentication Code (MAC) - Used for message authentication and
  integrity check. Is a function of both the message and the common secret
  shared by the sender and the receiver.

- Network Byte Order - MSB first, a.k.a., big endian.

- Ordered Message - A user message that is delivered in order with respect to
  all previous user messages sent within the stream on which the message was
  sent.

- Outstanding TSN (at an SCTP endpoint) - A TSN (and the associated DATA chunk)
  that has been sent by the endpoint but for which it has not yet received an
  acknowledgement.

- Path - The route taken by the SCTP packets. Sending to different destination
  addresses does not necessarily guarantee getting separate paths.

- Primary Path - The default destination and source address that will be put
  into an outbound packet.

- Receiver Window (rwnd) - Space available in the receiver's inbound buffer.

- SCTP association - A protocol relationship between SCTP endpoints, composed
  of the two SCTP endpoints and protocol state information including
  Verification Tags and the currently active set of TSNs, etc. An association
  can be uniquely identified by the transport addresses used by the endpoints
  in the association. Two SCTP endpoints MUST NOT have more than one SCTP
  association between them at any given time.

- SCTP endpoint - The logical sender/receiver of SCTP packets. In a multi-homed
  host, an SCTP endpoint is represented to its peers as a combination of a set
  of eligible destination transport addresses to which SCTP packets can be sent
  and a set of eligible source transport addresses from which SCTP packets can
  be received. All transport addresses used by an SCTP endpoint must use the
  same port number, but can use multiple IP addresses.

- SCTP packet - The unit of data delivery across the interface between SCTP and
  IP. An SCTP packet includes the common SCTP header, possible SCTP control
  chunks, and user data encapsulated within SCTP DATA chunks.

- SCTP user application (SCTP user) - The logical higher-layer application
  entity  which uses the services of SCTP.

- Slow-Start Threshold (ssthresh) - The threshold that the endpoint will use to
  determine whether to perform slow start or congestion avoidance on
  a particular destination.

- Stream - A unidirectional logical channel established from one to another
  associated SCTP endpoint, within which all user messages are delivered in
  sequence except for those submitted to the unordered delivery service.

- Stream Sequence Number - A 16-bit sequence number used internally by SCTP to
  ensure sequenced delivery of the user messages within a given stream.

- Tie-Tags: Two 32-bit random numbers that together make a 64-bit nonce. Used
  within a State Cookie and TCB so that a newly restarting association can be
  linked to the original association within the endpoint that did not restart
  and yet not reveal the true Verification Tags of an existing association. (?)

- Transmission Control Block (TCB) - An internal data structure created by an
  SCTP endpoint for each of its existing SCTP associations to other SCTP
  endpoints. TCB contains all the status and operational information for the
  endpoint to maintain and manage the corresponding association.

- Transmission Sequence Number (TSN) - A 32-bit sequence number used internally
  by SCTP. One TSN is attached to each chunk containing user data to permit the
  receiving SCTP endpoint to acknowledge its receipt and detect duplicate
  deliveries.

- Transport address - Defined by a network-layer address,a transport-layer
  protocol, and a transport-layer port number. In case of SCTP over IP, it is
  defined by the combination of IP address and SCTP port number.

- Unacknowledged TSN (at an SCTP endpoint) - A TSN (and the associated DATA
  chunk) that has been received by the endpoint but for which an
  acknowledgement has not yet been sent. Same as _Outstanding TSN_.

- Unordered Message - Unordered messages are _unordered_ with respect to any
  other message; this includes both other unordered messages as well as other
  ordered messages.

- User message - The unit of data delivery across the interface between SCTP
  and its user.

- Verification Tag - A 32-bit unsigned integer that is randomly generated. The
  Verification Tag provides a key that allows a receiver to verify that the
  SCTP packet belongs to the current association and is not an old or stale
  packet from a previous association.

## 1.4 Abbreviations

- MAC - Message Authentication Code
- RTO - Retransmission Timeout
- RTT - Round-Trip Time
- RTTVAR - Round-Trip Time Variation
- SCTP - Stream Control Transmission Protocol
- SRTT - Smoothed RTT
- TCB - Transmission Control Block
- TLV - Type-Length-Value coding format
- TSN - Transmission Sequence Number
- ULP - Upper Layer Protocol
